---
layout: post
title: Open Sourcing Sherlock
comments: true
author: Neil Gupta
time: 1:03pm
---

*This is an engineering post about technologies Tabule uses and develops. You can skip those post if you're not interested in software development.*

One of Tabule's major features is our intelligent natural language processing for parsing "bio exam in 3 weeks" into an organized item on your todo list. We call the technology that powers this feature Sherlock, due to its ability to pick out the important facts from a sentence.

We believe natural language input is crucial for a seamless user experience in any sort of date-oriented app (todo lists, calendars, etc), so we wanted to help other developers integrate this technology into their apps as well. As a result, we released Sherlock as an open source javascript library almost a year ago and the response has been great. The feedback and bug reports from the community have helped us make it better with every version, and Sherlock now powers several different apps.

Today, we're excited to announce the release of Sherlock 1.2.7! Despite the minor version number, this release brings significant changes/rewrites under the hood, making it much smarter than previous versions, particularly when dealing with ambiguous sentences. You can **[learn more about Sherlock on GitHub](https://github.com/Tabule/Sherlock)**.

Hopefully, Sherlock can help other apps achieve a baseline experience that all users expect when entering dates or times. If you decide to use Sherlock in your app or service, we'd love to [hear about it](mailto:contact@tabuleapp.com)!